Captioning sponsored by
MacNEIL/LEHRER PRODUCTIONS
>> Ifill: A NASTY WINTER STORM
ALREADY BLAMED FOR SEVERAL
DEATHS IN THE U.S. ROLLED UP THE
EASTERN SEABOARD TODAY,
THREATENING TO SNARL
THANKSGIVING TRAVEL.
GOOD EVENING.
I'M GWEN IFILL.
>> Woodruff: AND I'M JUDY
WOODRUFF.
ALSO AHEAD THIS TUESDAY, THE
BLOODY CIVIL WAR IN SYRIA.
THE MAIN REBEL GROUP ANNOUNCED
IT WILL SKIP UPCOMING PEACE
TALKS AND VOWED TO KEEP UP THE
BATTLE AGAINST PRESIDENT BASHAR
AL-ASSAD'S FORCES.
>> Ifill: AND OUR THANKSGIVING
WEEK SERIES ON FOOD CONTINUES
WITH A PROFILE OF AWARD-WINNING
COOKBOOK WRITER PAULA WOLFERT,
NOW CAUGHT BETWEEN HER LOVE OF
FOOD AND H BAERTTLE WITH
ALZHEIMER'S.
>> I CAN'T REMEMBER WHAT I READ
I KNOW WHAT THE DISH IS SUPPOSED
TO TASTE LIKE, I JUST DON'T
REMEMBER THE AMOUNTS.
I CAN'T... I CAN'T REMEMBER.
>> Ifill: THOSE ARE JUST SOME OF
THE STORIES WE'RE COVERING ON
TONIGHT'S PBS NEWSHOUR.
OF MANY THOUSANDS OF AMERICANS
LAY AT THE MERCY TODAY OF A
MAJOR WINTER STORM THAT'S
ARRIVED BEFORE WINTER ACTUALLY
STARTS.
THE SYSTEM HAS KILLED AT LEAST
11 PEOPLE SINCE IT BLEW ONTO THE
WEST COAST LAST WEEK.
THE STORM ROLLED TOWARD THE EAST
AS A WINTRY MIX OF HEAVY RAIN,
WIND, SNOW AND ICE ON THE EVE OF
THE THANKSGIVING TRAVEL PERIOD.
THIS MORNING, ROAD CONDITIONS IN
EASTERN KENTUCKY WERE ALREADY
GETTING DANGEROUS.
>> IT'S BEEN PRETTY TERRIBLE.
IT'S... SINCE I GOT ON 75, IT'S
BEEN RAIN AND.
NOW, IT'S ALL BEEN ICE AND SNOW.
>> Woodruff: THE SYSTEM HAD
EARLIER CROSSED THE WEST AND
SOUTHWEST, DUMPING SNOW AND ICE
FROM SOUTHERN CALIFORNIA INTO
TEXAS AND OKLAHOMA.
BY TODAY, IT WAS SPREADING FROM
THE GULF COAST REGION UP THE
LENGTH OF THE EASTERN SEABOARD.
SALT TRUCKS HIT THE ROADS FROM
NORTH CAROLINA TO THE NORTHEAST
TRYING TO GET THE JUMP ON
EXPECTED SNOW AND ICE.
>> YEAH, WE'RE GETTING READY.
>> Woodruff: AIRLINES BRACED FOR
MAJOR CANCELLATIONS AND FLIGHT
DELAYS THROUGH TOMORROW JUST AS
MILLIONS OF PEOPLE TRY TO GET
HOME FOR THE HOLIDAYS.
IN NEW YORK TODAY, SOME HOPED TO
BEAT THE BAD WEATHER BY FLYING
OUT EARLY.
>> IT WAS MANY HUNDREDS OF
DOLLARS TO CHANGE OUR TICKETS,
BUT WE HAD FAMILY PLANS IN
CHICAGO THAT WE CAN'T MISS, SO
OFF WE GO AND WE HAVE TO SUCK IT
UP.
>> Woodruff: FOR OTHERS, IT WAS
TOO LATE.
SOME WERE STUCK IN MIAMI
YESTERDAY AFTER FLIGHTS TO
DALLAS AND OTHER WESTERN CITIES
WERE CANCELED.
>> I CAN'T GET HOME, HAD TO
SPEND THE WHOLE NIGHT IN HERE IN
THIS AIRPORT ON THIS COLD FLOOR.
>> Woodruff: THEY WERE FEELING
THE FRUSTRATION IN MILWAUKEE, AS
WELL.
>> NOW WE ARE TRYING TO CONNECT
TO KANSAS CITY TO TRY TO GET
BACK TO TEXAS.
SO, YEAH, I WISH I COULD JUST
CLICK MY HEELS THREE TIMES AND
BE HOME, BUT THIS IS PRETTY
TOUGH.
>> Woodruff: TO AVOID GETTING
STUCK AT AIRPORTS OR ON THE
ROADS, SOME PEOPLE DECIDED TO
TAKE THE TRAIN.
>> MY SON SAID, "DON'T YOUHINK T
ABOUT DRIVING," AND I'M SO GLAD
WE ARE NOT DRIVING.
>> Woodruff: BUT, ACCORDING TO
A.A.A., 90% OF TRAVELERS WILL BE
ON THE ROADS THIS WEEK, AND
NEARLY 40 MILLION ARE EXPECTED
TO DRIVE 50 MILES OR MORE FROM
HOME.
THE U.S. SUPREME COURT WILL HEAR
ANOTHER CHALLENGE TO PRESIDENT
OBAMA'S HEALTH CARE LAW.
AT ISSUE IS A PROVISION THAT
EMPLOYERS PROVIDE BIRTH CONTROL
COVERAGE UNDER THEIR HEALTH
BENEFITS.
A NUMBER OF BUSINESS OWNERS HAVE
CITED RELIGIOUS OBJECTIONS.
LOWER COURTS HAVE DIVIDED IN
THEIR RULINGS ON THE ISSUE.
TWO AMERICAN B-52 BOMBERS FLEW
OVER DISPUTED ISLANDS IN THE
EAST CHINA SEA TODAY.
ON SATURDAY, BEIJING ANNOUNCED
AN AIR DEFENSE ZONE OVER THE
ISLANDS, WHICH JAPAN ALSO
CLAIMS.
THE U.S. REJECTED THE CHINESE
RESTRICTIONS.
MEANWHILE, CHINA SENT ITS ONLY
AIRCRAFT CARRIER ON A TRAINING
MISSION TODAYNTO  ITHE SOUTH
CHINA SEA.
DISPUTES IN THAT REGION CENTER
ON OIL AND GAS FIELDS.
WE'LL HAVE MORE ON THIS RIGHT
AFTER THE NEWS SUMMARY.
AFGHAN PRESIDENT HAMID KARZAI IS
MAKING NEW DEMANDS BEFORE
SIGNING A SECURITY AGREEMENT
WITH THE U.S.
THE "WASHINGTON POST" REPORTED
TODAY THAT KARZAI WANTS THE U.S.
TO HELP START PEACE TALKS WITH
THE TALIBAN AND TO RELEASE
AFGHAN PRISONERS FROM
GUANTANAMO.
KARZAI MADE THE DEMANDS DURING A
TWO-HOUR MEETING MONDAY WITH
NATIONAL SECURITY ADVISER SUSAN
RICE.
SHE WARNED AGAINST DELAY IN
SIGNING THE SECURITY PACT.
>> IF THE AGREEMENT ISN'T SIGNED
PROMPTLY, WHAT I SAID TO THE
PRESIDENT IS, "WE WOULD HAVE NO
CHOICE.
WE WOULD BE COMPELLED BY
NECESSITY, NOT BY OUR
PREFERENCE, TO HAVE TO BEGIN TO
PLAN FOR THE PROSPECT THAT WE
WILL NOT BE ABLE TO KEEP OUR
TROOPS HERE BECAUSE THEY WILL
NOT BE INVITED."
>> Woodruff: THE AGREEMENT WOULD
ALLOW SOME 8,000 AMERICAN TROOPS
TO STAY IN AFGHANISTAN AFTER
NEXT YEAR, HELPING TO TRAIN
AFGHAN FORCES.
IN THAILAND, THOUSANDS OF
PROTESTERS FORCED THE EVACUATION
OF SEVERAL KEY GOVERNMENT
MINISTRIES AND ANNOUNCED THEY
MEAN TO BRING DOWN THE
GOVERNMENT.
CROWDS HAVE ALREADY SEIZED A
NUMBER OF GOVERNMENT BUILDINGS.
THEY VOWED TODAY TO SHUT DOWN
MORE OFFICES IF PRIME MINISTER
YINGLUCK SHINAWATRA DOES NOT
RESIGN.
SHE CALLED FOR CALM AND OFFERED
TO NEGOTIATE.
FRANCE PLEDGED TODAY TO SEND
1,000 TROOPS TO THE CENTRAL
AFRICAREPUN BLIC IN AN EFFORT TO
RESTABILIZE THE NATION.
THE FORMER FRENCH COLONY HAS
FALLEN INTO NEAR ANARCHY SINCE
REBELS OUSTED THE PRESIDENT IN
MARCH.
NOW, THE U.N. IS WARNING OF MASS
ATROCITIES.
IN PARIS, FOREIGN MINISTER
LAURENT FABIUS OUTLINED HIS
HOPES FOR THE MISSION.
>> ( translated ): IN THIS
OPERATION, WHAT ARE WE AIMING
FOR?
FIRST, ASSIST AN ABOMINABLE
HUMANITARIAN SITUATION-- I MEAN,
REALLY ABOMINABLE-- THEN RESTORE
SECURITY IN A COUNTRY THAT IS
IMPLODING.
THIRDLY, ALLOW A POLITICAL BECAE
TRANSITIONAL AUTHORITIES.
AND FOURTHLY, AT SOME POINT,
ALLOW A KICK-START OF THE
ECONOMY."
>> Woodruff: THE FRENCH
DEPLOYMENT IS IN CONJUNCTION
WITH A REGIONAL PEACEKEEPING
FORCE BEING DEPLOYED BY THE
AFRICAN UNION.
CBS HAS ORDERED "60 MINUTES"
CORRESPONDENT LARA LOGAN AND HER
PRODUCER TO TAKE A LEAVE OF
ABSENCE OVER A STORY ON THE
BENGHAZI RAID.
THE OCTOBER REPORT CITED A
SECURITY GUARD'S CLAIM THAT HE
WAS THERE WHEN THE U.S. MISSION
WAS ATTACKED IN SEPTEMBER 2012.
IT QUICKLY TURNED OUT THAT HE
TOLD HIS EMPLOYER AND THE F.B.I.
THAT HE WAS NOT THERE.
A CBS INTERNAL REVIEW FOUND
LOGAN DID A POOR JOB OF VETTING
THE MAN'S ACCOUNT.
WALL STREET WAS RELATIVELY QUIET
TODAY.
THE DOW JONES INDUSTRIAL AVERAGE
GAINED A FRACTION OF A POINT TO
CLOSE AT 16,072.
THE NASDAQ ROSE 23 POTS TINO
CLOSE AT 4,017.
STILL TO COME ON THE NEWSHOUR:
RISING TENSIONS IN ASIA; THE
DEPORTATION DEBATE; THE FREE
SYRIAN ARMY'S UPHILL BATTLE;
WISCONSIN GOVERNOR SCOTT
WALKER'S LESSONS LEARNED FROM A
RECALL; HENRY LOUIS GATES'
SWEEPING HISTORY OF AFRICAN
AMERICANS; AND PAULA WOLFERT
TAKES ON ALZHEIMER'S IN THE
KITCHEN.
>> Woodruff: CHINA'S PUSH INTO
AN AREA ALSO CLAIMED BY JAPAN
HAS INCREASED VOLATILITY IN THE
REGION.
CHINA DEMANDS THAT BEFORE PLANES
ENTER THE DISPUTED AREA THEY NOW
NOTIFY THE CHINESE GOVERNMENT.
THIS MORNING, THE U.S. SENT TWO
B-52 BOMBERS OVER THE ISLANDS
WITHOUT GIVING NOTICE.
FOR MORE ON THIS, I'M JOINED BY
JULIAN BARNES OF THE "WALL
STREET JOURNAL."
THANK YOU FOR BEING HERE.
>> THANKS FOR HAVING ME.
>> Woodruff: WHY DID THE U.S.
SEND OVER BOMBERS IN AN AREA
OVER THE CHINESE SAID WE
CONTROL?
>> WELL, THE U.S. RIGHT AFTER
THAT ANNOUNCEMENT BY CHINA SAID
THEY'RE NOT GOING TO CHANGE THE
WAY THEY OPERATE IN THE REGION.
THE UNITED STATES DOESN'T TAKE
SIDES IN THE TEARTOR Y'ALL
DISPUTE BUT WE HAVE AN AGREEMENT
WITH JAPAN TO DEFEND JAPANESE
TERRITORY AND THE TERRITORY THEY
ADMINISTER.
SO THE U.S. BELIEVES THE STATUS
QUO MEANS THAT THIS -- THAT THIS
DEFENSE ZONE ALTERS THE STATUS
QUO AND SO THAT THEY CANNOT
ABIDE BY IT.
>> Woodruff: WHAT WAS THE
REACTION FROM THE CHINESE AFTER
THE U.S. DID THIS TODAY?
>> WELL, THE U.S. WAS PREPARED
BUT DID NOT EXPECT THAT CHINA
WOULD TRY TO INTERCEPT OR
CONTACT THE PLANES.
THERE WAS NO CONTACT BY CHINA
WHEN THE B. 52s FLEW OVER THE
DISPUTED ISLANDS.
THEY FLEW FROM GUAM, THEY
RETURNED TO GUAM WITHOUT
INCIDENT.
NOW, CHINA IS STICKING BY THIS
-- THEIR ESTABLISHMENT OF THE
AIR DEE IDENTIFICATION ZONE
AND WE'LL HAVE TO SEE WHAT
HAPPENS WITH SUBSEQUENT FLIGHTS.
>> Woodruff: SO DOES THE U.S.
JUST -- IS THIS A MATTER OF THE
U.S. NOT TAKING THE CHINESE
S IS A MATTER OF REASSURING
ALLIES.
THE U.S. DOES NOT WANT TO SEE
THE DISPUTE OVER THE ISLANDS
ESCALATE INTO A MILITARY
CONFLICT BETWEEN JAPAN AND
CHINA.
SO IT'S VERY IMPORTANT FOR THE
U.S. TO BE A CALMING INFLUENCE.
SO THAT'S WHY WE SEE THE U.S.
TAKING ACTION ALMOST TO PREVENT
JAPAN FROM DOING SOMETHING.
>> Woodruff: WHAT IS THE RISK
THAT THE U.S. SEES HERE?
I MEAN, THE RISK THAT THIS COULD
END UP ESCALATING.
>> RIGHT.
THIS DISPUTE HAS GONE ON FOR
MORE THAN A YEAR.
I MEAN, OBVIOUSLY IT GOES BACK
FAR BEFORE THAT.
BUT WE'VE HAD REPEATED CONFLICTS
OVER THESE ISLANDS OVER THE
COURSE OF THE LAST YEAR.
THE U.S. IS URGING THE STATUS
QUO, URGING CALM.
THEY -- BUT THERE'S QUITE WORRY
AND MISCALCULATION ON EITHER
SIDE.
>> Woodruff: THEY ARE WORRIED.
SO WHAT, THEN, ARE THE CHANCES
-- WHAT ARE THE U.S. PLANS AT
THIS POINT IN TERMS OF FUTURE
FLIGHTS?
ARE THEY GOING TO KEEP ON MAKING
THESE BOMBING RUNS OVER THE
AREA?
>>
>> DEFENSE OFFICIALS SAY THEY
REGULARLY EXERCISE IN THIS AREA.
THIS IS PART OF INTERNATIONAL
AIRSPACE.
THEY FLY THERE.
THEY'RE GOING TO CONTINUE TO DO
THIS.
THEY BELIEVE THAT THIS IS
ADMINISTERED BY JAPAN SO THAT
THEY CAN OPERATE THERE.
AND THEY WILL CONTINUE TO FLY
BOMBERS AND OTHER PLANES.
>> Woodruff: WE'LL KEEP
WATCHING.
JOURNALIAN BARNES OF THE "WALL
STREET JOURNAL."
THANK YOU.
>> THANK YOU.
>> Ifill: NOW, TO THE DEBATE
WITHIN THE DEBATE OVER
IMMIGRATION REFORM.
EVEN AS A SWEEPING OVERHAUL
REMAINS POLITICALLY OUT OF
REACH, HUNDREDS OF THOUSANDS OF
UNDOCUMENTED RESIDENTS ARE STILL
BEING DEPORTED.
AND THAT HAS ANGERED SOME OF THE
PRESIDENT'S MOST LOYAL
SUPPORTERS.
THE PRESIDENT WAS MAKING HIS
CASE FOR IMMIGRATION REFORM ON
MONDAY IN SAN FRANCISCO WHEN A
DISSENTING VOICE ROSE RIGHT
BEHIND HIM, DEMANDING AN END TO
DEPORTATIONS THAT DIVIDE
FAMILIES.
>> MOST IMPORTANTLY, WE WILL
LIVE UP TO OUR CHARACTER...
>> WHEN CAN I SEE MY FAMILY?
>> OUR FAMILIES ARE SEPARATED!
I NEED YOUR HELP.
THERE ARE THOUSANDS OF OTHERS.
>> THAT'S EXACTLY WHAT WE'RE
TALKING ABOUT.
>> EVERY SINGLE DAY...
>> THAT'S WHAT WHY WE'RE HERE.
>> MR. PRESIDENT, PLEASE USE
YOUR EXECUTIVE ORDER TO HALT
PETITIONS FOR ALL 11.5 MILLION
UNDOCUMENTED IMMIGRANTS IN THIS
COUNTRY RIGHT NOW.
>> Ifill: THE MAN MAKING THE
PLEA WAS JU HONG, A 24-YEAR-OLD
UNDOCUMENTED IMMIGRANT FROM
SOUTH KOREA.
OTHERS JOINED HIM, CHANTING FOR
ACTION EVEN AS THE PRESIDENT
WAVED THE SECRET SERVICE AWAY.
>> OBAMA!
>> STOP DEPORTATION!
>> WHAT I WOULD LIKE TO DO...
NO, NO, DON'T WORRY ABOUT IT,
GUYS.
>> STOP DEPORTATION, YES WE CAN.
>> Ifill: THE ADMINISTRATION HAS
DEPORTED RECORD NUMBERS OF
UNDOCUMENTED IMMIGRANTS-- ABOUT
400,000 ANNUALLY.
PROTESTERS HAVE PRESSED FOR
EXECUTIVE ACTION TO HALT THE
PRACTICE JUST AS MR. OBAMA
ORDERED A STOP TO DEPORTING
UNDOCUMENTED IMMIGRANT CHILDREN
LAST YEAR.
BUT THE PRESIDENT INSISTED
YESTERDAY THAT IN THIS CASE, HIS
HANDS ARE TIED.
THE EASY WAY OUT IS TO TRY TO
YELL AND PRETEND LIKE I CAN DO
SOMETHING BY VIOLATING OUR LAWS.
AND WHAT I'M PROPOSING IS THE
HARDER PATH, WHICH IS TO USE OUR
DEMOCRATIC PROCESSES TO ACHIEVE
THE SAME GOAL YOU WANT TO
ACHIEVE.
BUT IT WON'T BE JUST SHOUTING.
IT REQUIRES US LOBBYING AND
GETTING IT DONE.
( APPLAUSE )
>> Ifill: STILL, THE PROSPECT OF
"GETTING IT DONE" AS PART OF
BROAD IMMIGRATION REFORM SEEMS
REMOTE.
A BIPARTISAN MEASURE PASSED THE
SENATE IN JULY, BUT HOUSE
REPUBLICANS HAVE NO PLANS TO
TAKE IT UP BEFORE YEAR'S END.
THE ISSUE, HOWEVER, CONTINUES TO
PLAY OUT ON THE LOCAL LEVEL.
IN BOSTON, THE NEWLY-ELECTED
MAYOR SAID TODAY HE WANTS TO
PULL OUT OF A FEDERAL PROGRAM
THAT TRACKS PEOPLE IN THE
COUNTRY ILLEGALLY.
BUT DETENTION AND DEPORTATION
CONTINUES APACE.
FOR MORE ON THAT, WE TURN TO:
MARIA ELENA INCAPEE, EXECUTIVE
DIRECTOR OF THE NATIONAL
IMMIGRATION LAW CENTER; AND
DAVID MARTIN, A LAW PROFESSOR AT
THE UNIVERSITY OF VIRGINIA.
E DEPARTMENT OFE OBAMA
HOMELAND SECURITY.
WELCOME TO YOU BOTH.
MISS HINCAPEE, WHY HAVE
DEPORTATIONS INCREASED IN YOUR
VIEW?
>> WELL, UNDER THE OBAMA
ADMINISTRATION, WE'RE SEEING A
RECORD NUMBER OF PEOPLE BEING
DETAINED AND DEPORTED.
THESE ARE YOUR WORKING MOTHERS,
WORKING FATHERS, THEY'RE PEOPLE
PICKING OUR FRUITS, SERVING OUR
FOOD AT RESTAURANTS AND THERE
HAVE BEEN A NUMBER OF PROGRAMS
LIKE SECURITY COMMUNITY WHICH IS
IS A PROGRAM THE ADMINISTRATION
CREATED AND HAS ENFORCED
VIGOROUSLY.
WE ALSO SEE A LOT OF
COLLABORATION BETWEEN LAW
ENFORCEMENT AGENTS AT THE GROUND
AS WELL AS WITH IMMIGRATION
AGENTS.
WE ARE GOING TO RATE OVER 2
MILLION DEPORTEE UNDER THIS
ADMINISTRATION.
>> Ifill: DAVID MARTIN, WHY IS
THAT HAPPENED?
>> CONGRESS HAS FUNDED
ENFORCEMENT AT THOSE LEVELS, THE
ADMINISTRATION IS CARRYING OUT
THE LAWS HONORING THE PRESIDENT
UNDER THE CONSTITUTION.
SO THIS IS BOTH A CONGRESSIONAL
AND AN EXECUTIVE POLICY.
I WANT TO EMPHASIZE THAT THE
ADMINISTRATION HAS MADE AN
EFFORT TO REDIRECT DEPORTATION
ACTIONS TO PRIORITIZE PEOPLE
WITH CRIMINAL INVOLVEMENT OR
RECENT BORDER CROSSERS OR PEOPLE
WITH SERIOUS IMMIGRATION
VIOLATIONS.
THE BEST EXAMPLE OF THAT IS
DEFERRED ACTION FOR CHILDHOOD
ARRIVALS POLICY.
THE POLICY FOR THE SO-CALLED
DREAMERS.
FOR PEOPLE WHO CAME HERE AS
YOUNG CHILDREN RAND NOT
ACCOUNTABLE FOR THEIR ILLEGAL
PRESENCE IN THE COUNTRY.
THAT WAS A POLICY ANNOUNCED
ABOUT 18 MONTHS AGO THAT
PROVIDES A FORM OF STATUS FOR
THOSE PEOPLE.
SO ALL OF THAT IS PART OF THE
PROCESS.
THE PRESIDENT DOESN'T HAVE THE
AUTHORITY TO SIMPLY WAIVE OFF
ENFORCEMENT OF THE LAWS.
THAT'S NOT THE KIND OF SYSTEM WE
HAVE.
SO THERE'S BEEN AN EFFORT TO
REPRIORITIZE IT.
>> Ifill: MS. HINCAPIE, IS THAT
REPRIORITIZATION ENOUGH FOR YOU?
THAT'S WHAT HE TODAY THE
HECKLERS IN THE CROWD.
"IT'S NOT UP TO ME.
GO TALK TO CONGRESS."
>> I THINK THE YOUNG IMMIGRANT
IN THE CROWD WAS VOICING A
GROWING CONCERN AMONG IMMIGRANT
COMMUNITIES BECAUSE OF THE
FRUSTRATION OF CONGRESSIONAL
INACTION AS WELL AS THE FACT
THAT THIS ADMINISTRATION IS
DEPORTING MORE PEOPLE THAN ANY
PRIOR ADMINISTRATION.
AND DAVID IS RIGHT THAT THE
APPROPRIATIONS CONGRESS IS
PARTIALLY AT FAULT HERE IN TERMS
OF THE AMOUNT OF MONEY THAT
THEY'RE THROWING AWAY.
$18 BILLION IN LAST FISCAL YEAR
ALONE.
MORE THAN ALL LAW ENFORCEMENT --
ALL FEDERAL AGENT -- LAW
ENFORCEMENT AGENCIES COMBINED.
THAT'S INDLEBL NATION IS
SPENDING THAT MUCH TIME, THAT
MUCH MONEY AT A TIME WE'RE
FACING SUCH A FEDERAL DEFICIT.
BUT THE ADMINISTRATION WITH THE
DEFERRED ACTION FOR CHILDHOOD
ARRIVALS PROGRAM DID IDENTIFY
YOUNG IMMIGRANTS ARE ELIGIBLE OR
CONSIDERED TO BE LOW-LEVEL
PRIORITY.
THE PROBLEM IS THAT THE
ADMINISTRATION ISN'T NECESSARILY
ENFORCING OR APPLYING EVEN ITS
EXISTING POLICIES AND
PROCEDURES.
>> Ifill: WHAT DO YOU SAY TO
DAVID MARTIN'S POINT THAT THE
LAW IS THE LAW IS THE LAW?
>> WELL, I THINK WE BELIEVE IN
THE RULE OF LAW AS WELL.
AND WE BELIEVE THAT THE
ADMINISTRATION SHOULD BE
ENFORCING AND HOPEFULLY UNDER
NEW D.H.S. LEADERSHIP THEY WILL
PUT IN PLACE AN IMPLEMENTATION
OF EXISTING POLICIES AND
PRIORITIES.
SO THE WAY THAT THE
ADMINISTRATION HAS IDENTIFIED
WHO IS A CONSIDERED A LOW-LEVEL
PRIORITY WE SHOULDN'T CONTINUE
TO SEE IMMIGRANT WORKERS, PEOPLE
WHO ARE PAYING TAXES, PEOPLE WHO
ARE RAISING A FAMILY, WHO ARE
CONTRIBUTING TO OUR ECONOMY IN
SO MANY DIFFERENT WAYS, THE SAME
VERY PEOPLE THAT WOULD BE
ELIGIBLE FOR IMMIGRATION REFORM
WHICH THE ADMINISTRATION HAS
IDENTIFIED AS ITS TOP
LEGISLATIVE PRIORITY.
WE SHOULDN'T BE DEPORTING TODAY
THE CITIZENS OF TOMORROW.
>> Ifill: DAVID MARTIN, HOW MUCH
LATITUDE DOES THE PRESIDENT HAVE
TO SAY, OKAY, THESE ARE
CRIMINALS OVER HERE WHO ARE OUT
OF IMMIGRATION STATUS AND THESE
ARE MOTHERS AND CHILDREN WHO ARE
OUT OF IMMIGRATION STATUS AND
THESE I WILL DEPORT OR DETAIN
AND THESE I WON'T?
>> THE PRESIDENT DOES HAVE
DISCRETION TO SET THE PRIORITIES
AND THAT'S PRETTY MUCH WHAT THE
PRESIDENT HAS TRIED TO DO.
IT'S NOT JUST FOR PEOPLE WITH
CRIMINAL RECORDS BUT ALSO, FOR
EXAMPLE, FOR RECENT ARRIVALS,
EVEN IF THEY'RE JUST COMING HERE
TO WORK.
I THINK THAT'S A SOUND OVERALL
POLICY.
SO THE PRESIDENT DOES HAVE
AUTHORITY.
AND IT CAN BE ADJUSTED, SOME
BEYOND WHAT IT IS RIGHT NOW AND
ALSO I SHARE MARIA ELENA'S
CONCERN.
STEPS NEED TO BE STRENGTHENED TO
MAKE SURE THAT THE PRIORITIES
ARE REALLY FOLLOWED.
BUT THE PRESIDENT DOESN'T HAVE
THE AUTHORITY TO DO WHAT SOME
PEOPLE WERE ASKING FOR
YESTERDAY: ESSENTIALLY TO STOP
HAUL DEPORTATIONS OF ANY OF THE
ESTIMATED 11.5 MILLION PEOPLE
WHO WILL HERE IN THE COUNTRY.
PROSECUTORIAL DISCRETION IS THE
AUTHORITY TO FOCUS RESOURCES, TO
DIRECT THWART PRIORITIES, IT'S
NOT THE AUTHORITY TO NEGATE THE
LAW OR IGNORE IT.
>> Ifill: CAN I ASK YOU ANOTHER
QUESTION ABOUT THAT?
SHE ALLUDED TO THE FACT THAT
THESE ARE RECORD NUMBERS OF
DEPORTATIONS.
HOW DOES WHAT THIS
ADMINISTRATION IS DOING COMPARE
TO PAST ADMINISTRATIONS?
>> WELL, THE ADMINISTRATION HAS
NOT RAMPED UP ENFORCEMENT BEYOND
ESSENTIALLY WHAT IT WAS AT THE
END OF THE BUSH ADMINISTRATION.
THERE WAS A BIG RUNUP IN
ENFORCEMENT AND ESPECIALLY IN
CONGRESSIONAL APPROPRIATIONS FOR
THAT.
IN THE CLINTON ADMINISTRATION
AND THEN THE GEORGE W. BUSH
ADMINISTRATION.
I DID SOME CALCULATIONS ON HOW
THAT WAS.
THE FINAL YEAR OF THE BUSH
ADMINISTRATION THERE WERE
391,000 REMOVALS AND RETURNS BY
I.C.E., THE IMMIGRATION AND
CUSTOMS ENFORCEMENT AGENCY.
CURRENTLY IT'S RUNNING ABOUT
400,000.
IT IS INCREASING SOMEWHAT IN
LINE WITH THE APPROPRIATIONS.
BUT THIS MAY BE RECORD
DEPORTATIONS NOW, BUT IT'S ONLY
SLIGHTLY ABOVE THE LEVEL THAT IT
REACHED IN THE BUSH
ADMINISTRATION.
AGAIN, WITH CONGRESS'S VERY
ACTIVE SUPPORT.
IF WE'RE GOING TO CHANGE THAT
PATTERN, WE REALLY NEED TO GET
NEW LEGISLATION AND ALSO THE
FOCUS HAS TO BE AS WELL ON
CONGRESS AND THE APPROPRIATIONS
PROCESS.
>> Ifill: MARIA ELENA, A FINAL
WORD?
>> YES, I THINK CONGRESS IS --
THE FINAL DECISION RESTS WITH
CONGRESS.
CONGRESS MUST ENACT IMMIGRATION
REFORM.
THAT'S WHERE THE PERMANENT
SOLUTION RESTS.
HOWEVER, IN THE MEANTIME, THE
PRESIDENT DOES HAVE, WE BELIEVE,
THE LEGAL AUTHORITY AND THE
MORAL AUTHORITY TO REDUCE THE
NUMBER OF DEPORTATIONS SO THAT
PEOPLE WHO ARE CONSIDERED
LOW-LEVEL PRIORITIES THAT WOULD
BE ELIGIBLE TODAY FOR
IMMIGRATION REFORM IF CONGRESS
ACTED SHOULD NOT BE DEPORTED
ANYMORE.
>> Ifill: DAVID MARTIN, IS THIS
A LEGAL OR MORAL ISSUE?
>> WELL, BOTH ARE INVOLVED.
THE EFFORT TO TRY TO INFUSE MORE
OF THIS MORAL PERSPECTIVE,
PEOPLE REALLY DISAGREE ON WHAT
THAT IS.
BUT THAT PERSPECTIVE INTO OUR
OVERALL ENFORCEMENT PICTURE HAS
TO BE DONE THROUGH WORKING ON
AMENDMENTS FOR THE LAWS.
WE'RE INVOLVED IN THAT PROCESS,
IT'S A VERY DIFFICULT PROCESS,
POLITICALLY FRAUGHT BUT SERIOUS
CONTINUING LEVEL OF ENFORCEMENT
HAS TO BE A KEY PART OF THE
OVERALL PACKAGE AND THE
LONG-TERM EFFORT TO MAKE OUR
IMMIGRATION SYSTEM HEALTHY.
>> Ifill: DAVID MARTIN AT THE
UNIVERSITY OF VIRGINIA AND MARIA
ELENA HINCAPIE OF NATIONAL
IMMIGRATION LAW CENTER.
THANK YOU SO MUCH.
>> THANK YOU, GWEN.
>> Woodruff: THE HEAD OF THE
FREE SYRIAN ARMY ANNOUNCED TODAY
THAT HIS GROUP WILL NOT BE
ATTENDING THE SO-CALLED "GENEVA
2" CONFERENCE AIMED AT BRINGING
A POLITICAL SOLUTION TO THE
COUNTRY'S CRISIS.
INSTEAD, F.S.A. COMMANDER SALIM
IDRISS VOWED TO CONTINUE
FIGHTING TO TOPPLE SYRIAN
PRESIDENT BASHAR AL-ASSAD.
BUT, AS MARGARET WARNER REPORTS,
THAT OBJECTIVE HAS BECOME
INCREASINGLY UNLIKELY AS THE
UNDERFUNDED AND OUTGUNNED GROUP
IS FORCED TO FIGHT ADDITIONAL
ENEMIES.
>> Warner: LAST NOVEMBER WE MET
COLONEL ABDUL OUTSIDE ALEPPO.
HIS FREE SYRIAN ARMY UNITS WERE
ON THE MARCH, HE TOLD US, TAKING
GROUND IN THE CITY AND
SURROUNDING AREA AND SEIZING THE
MOMENTUM AGAINST BASHAR
AL-ASSAD'S GOVERNMENT FORCES.
>> ( translated ): WE HAVE
ALMOST FULL CONTROL ON THE
GROUND, THOUGH THEY ARE SUPERIOR
IN THE AIR AND WITH ROCKET
LAUNCHERS, TANKS AND ARTILLERY.
BUT WE ARE SPEAR JUROR ON THE
GROUND AND WE HAVE CONTROL.
>> Warner: BUT EARLIER THIS
MONTH, THE WELL-REGARDED
COMMANDER RESIGNED HIS POST.
IN THIS YOUTUBE VIDEO, HE VOICED
FRUSTRATION WITH ALL THE
IN-FIGHTING AMONG THE
REBELLION'S DISPARATE UNITS AND
LEADERS, INCLUDING JIHADIST
BRIGADES.
>> ( translated ): YOU WAR LORDS
STOP CHASING POSITIONS AND
STATUS AND CARRYING ABOUT BEING
FAMOUS.
RETURN TO THE BATTLEFIELDS AND
LEAVE BEHIND YOUR EGOS.
>> Warner: JOSHUA LANDIS, HEAD
OF MIDDLE EAST STUDIES AT THE
UNIVERSITY OF OKLAHOMA SAID THE
RESIGNATION OF THE GENERAL A
FAVORITE OF THE U.S. AND THE
WEST, SHOWS A REBELLION IN
CRISIS.
>> HE WAS THE GO-TO MAN FOR
SUPPLYING THE NON-LETHAL AID AND
MANY PEOPLE HAVE PROPOSEED THAT
-- HIS QUITTING SHOWS YOU THE
WESTERN ATTEMPT TO DEVELOP A
SUPREME MILITARY COUNCIL AND THE
SYRIAN NATIONAL COUNCIL AND SO
FORTH HAS LARGELY COLLAPSED.
>> Warner: RIGHT NOW THE REGIME
IS ATTACKING REBEL-HELD AREAS IN
ALEPPO AND THE SUBURBS OF
DAMASCUS AND USED TO CROSS FROM
REBELS IN LEBANON.
ANOTHER TOP COMMANDER WAS JUST
KILLED IN AN AIR STRIKE AND LAST
MONTH, ASSAD'S FORCES RETOOK THE
TOWN OF A FEAR A OUTSIDE ALEPPO.
THE LATEST IN A STRING OF
SETBACKS THAT BEGAN WITH THE
JUNE SIEGE AND FALL OF QUSAIR,
WHERE ASSAD'S FORCES WERE
BOOSTED BY FIGHTERS FROM LEBANON
SHIITE MILITIA HEZBOLLAH.
>> THEY HAVE EXTENDED THEIR
INFLUENCE.
>> Warner: THAT ASSAULT
ESTABLISHED A PLAY BOOK FOR THE
MONTHS AHEAD SAYS FORMER DEFENSE
INTELLIGENCE OFFICIAL JEFFREY
WHITE OF THE WASHINGTON
INSTITUTE FOR NEAR EAST POLICY.
>> THIS IS WHAT I CALL THE
QUSAIR RULES.
THEY USE MASSIVE FIREPOWER, AIR
ARTILLERY, ARMOR.
THEY USE HEZBOLLAH FORCES TO
PROVIDE THE INFANTRY.
IF THEY CAN, THEY'LL ISOLATE AN
AREA AND POUND IT INTO
SUBMISSION.
>> Warner: BEFORE THIS REVERSAL
OF FORTUNE, THE U.S. AND RUSSIA
WERE PUSHING TO CONVENE A PEACE
CONFERENCE HERE IN GENEVA HOPING
THAT THE WARRING PARTIES, HAVING
FOUGHT TO A STALEMATE, WOULD
NEGOTIATE A POLITICAL SOLUTION
TO THEIR CONFLICT.
WELL, THERE'S NOW A NEW
CONFERENCE DATE SET FOR JANUARY.
MANY WHO'VE BEEN INVOLVED IN THE
STRUGGLE TO END THE CONFLICT ARE
SKEPTICAL OF ITS CHANCES FOR
SUCCESS-- INCLUDING FRED HAUF
WHO RAN THE STATE DEPARTMENT'S
SYRIA TRANSITION OPERATION UNTIL
THE FALL OF 2012.
>> IT'S GOING TO BE VERY
DIFFICULT, I THINK, TO CONVENE A
GENEVA CONFERENCE AND TO HAVE A
RESULT THAT ESSENTIALLY AMOUNTS
TO PEACEFUL, NEGOTIATED REGIME
CHANGE IN SYRIA SO LONG AS THAT
REGIME ITSELF BELIEVES IT IS
WINNING.
>> Warner: WHAT'S MORE, THE FREE
SYRIAN ARMY-- OR F.S.A.-- NOW
FINDS ITSELF FIGHTING ON TWO
FRONTS.
AGAINST ASSAD AND AGAINST
EXTREME ISLAMIST ELEMENTS OF THE
REBELLION.
GROUPS LIKE THE AL QAEDA-LINKED
AL NUSRA FRONT AND ISIS, THE
ISLAMIC STATE OF IRAQ AND AL
SHAM.
FUNDED GENEROUSLY BY WEALTHY
INDIVIDUALS FROM THE GULF,
THEY'RE ATTRACTED SUNNI JIHADIST
FIGHTERS FROM THROUGHOUT THE
ARAB AND MUSLIM WORLD AND EVEN
NON-LIKE MINDED SYRIANS.
>> THE JIHADI GROUPS ARE WELL
FINANCED, WELL EQUIPPED, WELL
ARMED.
THEIR PRIORITIES SEEM TO BE TO
ESTABLISH VARIOUS FORMS OF
PSEUDOISMICLA GOVERNANCE ON THE
VILLAGES AND TOWNS AND CITIES
WHERE THEY'RE IN CONTROL.
ISHS.
>> Warner: THEY'RE TAKING THAT
CONTROL IN SOME PLACES FROM THE
MORE CENTRIST F.S.A. FORCES SAYS
JEFF WHITE.
>> THE EXTREME ISLAMISTS ARE
VERY GOOD AT TAKING CONTROL.
THEY HAVE A VERY EFFECTIVE
STRATEGY OF SEIZING GROUND,
EXPANDING THAT AREA OF CONTROL,
BRINGING IN GOOD GOVERNMENTS AND
GOOD GOVERNANCE IN THE SENSE
THAT IT'S NOT CORRUPT OR
CRIMINAL.
INITIALLY THEY WERE PRETTY
CLUMSY.
THE FIRST TIME THEY GO IN IS TO
ESTABLISH AN EXTREME FORM OF
SHARIA LAW.
NOW THEY'RE MORE CLEVER.
THEY ALSO DELIVER SERVICES.
>> Warner: THEIR GROWING POWER
ALARMS THE F.S.A.'S COMMANDING
GENERAL, SAA SALIM IT IDRISS WHO
SPOKE FROM TURKEY.
>> THEY ARE FIGHTING AGAINST THE
FREE SYRIAN ARMY.
THEY ARE TRYING TO CONTROL
TERRITORY WHICH IS WE LIBERATED
BEFORE AND THEY DON'T FIGHT
AGAINST THE REGIME AND THEY ARE,
FOR US, VERY DANGEROUS AND MAYBE
SOMETIMES MORE DANGEROUS THAN
THE REGIME.
>> Warner: SR. THIS BECAUSE
THEY'RE BET EQUIPPED?
>> WHEN THE REGIME IS TRYING TO
DO SOME PRESSURE ON A FRONT,
THEY BEGIN AND START TO DO A LOT
OF TROUBLE FROM OUR FORCES IN
OTHER REGIONS SO THAT WE ARE
FORCED TO SEND FIGHTERS TO FACE
THEM.
>> Warner: IDRISS REPEATED A
LONG-STANDING PLEA, THAT THE
U.S. AND OTHER FRIENDLY POWERS
GIVE HIS FORCES MORE WEAPONS,
EQUIPMENT, TRAINING AND MONEY.
THE LACK OF THOSE RESOURCES
HELPED PROMPT THE RESIGNATION OF
HIS FRIEND, COLONEL AKAIDI, HE
SAID.
>> WHEN WE DON'T RECEIVE SUPPORT
SOMETIMES WE CAN'T WEAKEN THE
PRESSURE AND HUMANS HAVE LIMITS
AND SOMETIMES SOMEONE AS
CRIMINAL AS ABDUL-JABBAR COMES
TO THE LIMITS AND SAYS "OKAY,
ENOUGH, AS A COMMANDER I CAN'T
CONTINUE."
>> Warner: YOU'RE TALKING ABOUT
THE UNITED STATES IN PARTICULAR
NOT GIVING ENOUGH SUPPORT?
>> THE SUPPORTING COUNTRIES TO
THE REGIME ARE DOING VERY WELL
AND SUPPORTING COUNTRIES TO THE
F.S.A. AND TO THE SYRIAN
REVOLUTIONS IN GENERAL, THE
SUPPORT IS VERY LITTLE.
OUR FRIENDS, THEY HESITATE.
>> Warner: EARLIER THIS YEAR,
THE OBAMA ADMINISTRATION DID
APPROVE THE SHIPMENT OF SOME
ARMS AND AMMUNITION TO VETTED
F.S.A. REBELS YOU SHOULD A
COVERT OPERATION BY THE C.I.A.
BUT TO BE EECTIVE, SAYS FRED
HOF, THE MISSION MUST BE RAMPED
UP AND AIMED AT CREATING A
UNIFIED, DISCIPLINED REBEL
STRUCTURE.
>> I THINK THE ANSWER IS FOR THE
UNITED STATES TO EMPLOY THE U.S.
DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE IN AN
EFFORT, REALLY, TO TAKE CONTROL
OVER THE WHOLE PROCESS.
IF.
>> Warner: BUT THE OUNT ARGUMENT
HAS, FOR NOW, WON THE
PRESIDENT'S EAR.
>> NO, I WOULDN'T HEAR IT.
FIRST OF ALL, AMERICA HAS VERY
FEW INTERESTS IN SYRIA.
MOST OF THE IMPORTANT MILITIA
FORCES ON THE GROUND ARE LOYAL
TO AL QAEDA OR THEY'RE VERY
SALAFIST.
THEY WOULD SEE AMERICAN
INTRUSION AS AN IMPERIALIST ACT
AND THEY WOULD BEGIN BLOWING US
UP IN THE SAME WAY THAT THEY DID
IRAINQ.
>> Warner: SO WHERE DOES THIS
BRUTAL WAR GO FROM HERE?
JEFFREY WHITE THINKS THE REGIME
IS GOING TO WARE DOWN THE
FRAGMENTED REBEL FORCES.
>> WE CAN'T MATCH UP THE THE
REGIME.
AND THE REGIME IS GOING TO KEEP
WINNING THESE LOCAL BATTLES.
AND THE REGIME IS IMPLACABLE.
>> Warner: LANDIS PREDICTS A
CONFLICT THAT GRINDS ON AS FAR
AS THE EYE CAN SEE.
>> NO ONE IS WILLING TO
INTERVENE.
THEY'RE GOING TO FIGHT IT OUT
AND THAT'S -- THAT'S BEEN
DEVASTATING SO FAR AND IT WILL
CONTINUE TO BE.
>> Warner: FOR A COUNTRY THAT
SUFFERED THREE YEARS OF WAR, AT
LEAST
110,000 DEAD, MORE THAN TWO
MILLION REFUGEES DRIVEN OUT AND
FOUR MILLION DISPLACED INSIDE
SYRIA, A GRIM FORECAST OF MORE
SUFFERING TO COME.
>> Ifill: NEXT, TO OUR INTERVIEW
WITH WISCONSIN GOVERNOR SCOTT
WALKER, THE FIRST GOVERNOR IN
HISTORY TO SURVIVE A RECALL
VOTE, A DISTINCTION WHICH HAS
VAULTED HIM INTO 2016
PRESIDENTIAL SPECULATION WHICH
IN A NEW BOOK, "UNINTIMIDATED,"
WALKER CHRONICLES HIS BATTLES
WITH PUBLIC SECTOR UNIONS AND
OFFERS HIS PRESCRIPTION FOR
NATIONAL LEADERS.
JEFFREY BROWN CAUGHT UP WITH THE
REPUBLICAN GOVERNOR DURING A
VISIT TO WASHINGTON LAST WEEK.
>> Brown: GOVERNOR SCOTT WALKER,
WELCOME.
>> GOOD TO BE WITH YOU.
>> Brown: I WANT TO START WITH
THE TITLE "UNINTIMIDATED."
IT SOUNDS COMBATIVE, TOUGH, GOOD
GUYS, BAD GUYS.
WHY THAT TONE AT A TIME WHEN
MANY AMERICANS SAY THEY'RE TIRED
OF THIS KIND OF FIGHTING?
>> WELL, THERE'S A DIFFERENCE
BETWEEN WHAT YOU SEE IN
WASHINGTON AND WHAT YOU SEE IN
STATES LIKE WISCONSIN.
IN WASHINGTON I THINK MANY WAYS
PROBABLY PARTLY SO MOST
AMERICANS SEE THE FIGHTING AS
BEING FOR THE SAKE OF FIGHTING.
THEY DON'T FEEL LIKE THEY'RE
FIGHTING FOR SOMETHING.
THEY FEEL LIKE IT'S FIGHTING FOR
A GAME SPORT.
>> Brown: YOU THINK THEY SEE
THAT WHEN THEY WATCH WHAT'S
GOING ON IN POLITICS?
>> I THINK SO ACROSS THE BOARD.
I THINK THE STATES THAT'S REALLY
CHANGED THE TIDE FOR US IN MY
RECALL ELECTION.
PEOPLE SAW WHAT WE WERE DOING
WAS FIGHTING FOR THEM.
FIGHTING FOR THE HARD-WORKING
TAXPAYERS, TAKING ON THE STATUS
QUO, TAKING ONEN THE ENTRENCHED
SPECIAL INTERESTS AND FOR OTHER
GOVERNORS AND US THAT'S WHY
THERE'S A DIFFERENCE.
>> Brown: BUT I WAS IN WISCONSIN
I TOLD YOU, FOR THE RECALL
ELECTION AND I -- SO MANY PEOPLE
ON BOTH SIDES SAID TO ME THAT
THEY HAD NEVER SEEN THE STATE SO
DIVIDED, SO POLARIZED.
I REMEMBER THE TEACHER IN
OCONOMOWOC WHO SAID "I FEEL LIKE
PUBLIC ENEMY NUMBER ONE.
THAT'S HOW TEACHERS HAVE BEEN
MADE TO FEEL."
GIVEN ALL OF , MODEL FOR WHAT
YOU'D LIKE TO SEE IN WASHINGTON?
>> WELL, BECAUSE WE'VE MOVED ON.
EVEN IN THE MESS OF THESE
PROTESTS I WOULD GO OUT TO
PUBLIC SCHOOLS AND READ WITH
KIDS BECAUSE IT WAS A PART OF MY
READING PROGRAM.
I WOULD MEET IN A LOUNGE OR
LIBRARY WITH TEACHERS FOR AN
HOUR.
REMEMBER THE SECOND OR THIRD
QUESTION THAT PARTICULAR DAY WAS
SOMEONE WHO SAID "WHY DO YOU
HATE TEACHERS?
WHY ARE YOU GOING AFTER
TEACHERS?"
AND I SAID "YOU'LL BE HARD
PRESSED TO FIND ANY COMMENTS
I'VE EVER MADE ABOUT TEACHERS AS
GOVERNOR WHERE I HAVEN'T SAID
ANYTHING BUT POSITIVE WORDS
ABOUT THE GOOD PUBLIC SERVANTS
WE HAVE.
SO THE PEOPLE MAKING YOU FEEL
UNDER ATTACK IS YOUR UNION
LEADERSHIP AND THEY'RE DOING IT
FOR POLITICALLY INTENSE
REASONS."
>> Brown: SO YOU PUT ALL OF THAT
ON THE UNION LEADERS?
BECAUSE THERE WAS A LOT OF
INTENSITY ON BOTH SIDES.
THERE WAS A TONE OF -- CERTAINLY
A FEELING AMONG GOVERNMENT
WORKERS AND TEACHERS IN
PARTICULAR THAT THIS IS ALL
AGAINST US AND WE DIDN'T CAUSE
THE PROBLEMS OF THIS STATE.
>> THE IRONY OF THAT IS THE
REASON WHY -- ONE OF THE BIG
MISTAKES I TALK ABOUT IN THE
BOOK WAS THE FACT THAT I DIDN'T
MAKE THE CASE EARLY ON FOR THE
NEED FOR THE REFORMS.
>> Brown: YOU DIDN'T MAKE IT
EARLY YOU HAVE?
>> I TALKED ABOUT HIT IN THE
CAMPAIGN BUT FROM THE TIME I WAS
ELECTED UNTIL THE TIME WHEN THE
REFORMS CAME UP I ADMIT IN THE
BOOK, I WAS SO EAGER TO FIX
THINGS I DIDN'T SPEND TIME
TALKING ABOUT WHY WE NEEDED TO
FIX THEM.
USUALLY MOAT POLITICIANS OF
EITHER PARTY TALK ABOUT THINGS
BUT NEVER FIX THEM.
WHAT I LEARNED -- ONE OF THE
LESSONS LEARNED IS THAT YOU HAVE
TO DO BOTH.
YOU HAVE TO TALK ABOUT IT AND
FIX IT.
>> Brown: WHERE DO YOU SEE THE
REPUBLICAN PARTY RIGHT NOW?
YOU SAID FOR EXAMPLE YOU THOUGHT
HOUSE REPUBLICANS WERE WRONG TO
PUSH THE GOVERNMENT SHUTDOWN.
>> WELL, I THINK THE FEDERAL
GOVERNMENT IS TOO BIG AND TOO
EXPANSIVE, TOO INVOLVED IN OUR
LIVES.
SO WHAT I THINK I'D LIKE TO SEE
IS A MORE NARROW AND FOCUSED
GOVERNMENT.
FOR WHAT'S LEFT, THOUGH, WHAT'S
NECESSARY, WE SHOULD SHOW THAT
IT CAN WORK.
THE OPTIMISM I SHOW IN THE BOOK
IS THAT WHILE I DON'T SEE ENOUGH
OF IN THE WASHINGTON I SEE IN
THE PLENTIFUL MEASURE ALL ACROSS
THE COUNTRY IN THE 30 STATES
THAT HAVE REPUBLICAN GOVERNORS,
NEARLY AS MANY STATES THAT THAT
HAVE REPUBLICAN LEGISLATIVE
MAJORITIES AND THE DIFFERENCE
THERE IS GOVERNORS-- NOT JUST I
BUT OTHER GOVERNORS I TALK
ABOUT-- SHARE THE LESSONS
LEARNED FROM OTHER PLACES AROUND
THE COUNTRY ARE TALKING IN TERMS
THAT ARE MUCH MORE OPTIMISTIC.
WE'RE NOT JUST AGAINST THINGS,
WE'RE FOR THINGS.
WE HAVE A PLAN TO MAKE OUR
CITIZENS' LIVES BETTER.
>> Brown: THERE ARE A LOT OF
PEOPLE THINK IT IS THE PARTY OF
NO WHEN IT COMES TO ALL KINDS OF
ISSUES.
>> I CAN SEE HOW THEY SEE THAT
BY SOME OF THE STATEMENTS THAT
COME OUT OF PEOPLE IN
WASHINGTON.
THAT'S WHY IN THE STATES-- AND
NOT JUST OVERALL, BUT THINK
ABOUT IT.
IT'S NOT JUST 30 STATES.
IT'S STATES LIKE WISCONSIN, I I,
MICHIGAN, OHIO, PENNSYLVANIA,
NEW MEXICO, FLORIDA, NEVADA.
WHAT DO THOSE STATES HAVE IN
COMMON?
THEY ARE HISTORICALLY KNOWN AS
BATTLEGROUND STATES IN THE
PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION.
THEY WERE ALL CARRIED BY BARACK
OBAMA, EVERY SINGLE ONE OF THEM
HAS A REPUBLICAN GOVERNOR.
>> Brown: THE REPUBLICAN PARTY
TOO CONSERVATIVE ON SOCIAL
ISSUES NOW?
GAY MARRIAGE, FOR EXAMPLE,
ABORTION?
>> THERE'S ROOM IN THAT BUT I
THINK -- IF YOU LOOK AT ALL 30
GOVERNORS, ALL OF THEM ON SOCIAL
ISSUES AS WELL AS ECONOMIC AND
FISCAL ARE PROBABLY MORE
CONSERVATIVE IN MITT ROMNEY YET
WE WON IN ALL THOSE STATES
INCLUDING BATTLEGROUND STATES.
>> Brown: NOT AT THE NATIONAL
LEVEL.
>> THE DIFFERENCE IS WE HAVEN'T
HAD A NOMINEE -- SOME WOULD
ARGUE THE NOMINEES HAVE BEEN TOO
MODERATE AND REPUBLICANS ARE
CONSERVATIVES AT HOME.
I THINK THE BIGGER ISSUE IS
WE'VE ADD IN PARTICULAR -- I
MENTION A WHOLE CHAPTER IN THIS
BOOK WHERE WE HAVE A VOID, YOU
ALLOW THE OTHER SIDE TO DEFINE
THINGS THAT AREN'T THE TOP LIST
OF PRIORITIES.
MOST PEOPLE IN MY STATE-- I
WOULD ARGUE MOST PEOPLE IN
AMERICA-- WANT LEADERS WHO WILL
TACKLE ECONOMIC AND FISCAL
ISSUES FACING US TODAY.
THERE ARE REAL CRISES HERE.
AND THE LAST PRESIDENTIAL
CAMPAIGN YOU'D BE HARD PRESSED
TO FIND A TYPICAL AMERICAN VOTER
WHO WOULD TELL YOU WHAT MITT
ROMNEY IS GOING TO DO TO MAKE
THEIR LIFE BETTER WHEN IT CAME
TO ECONOMIC AND FISCAL ISSUES.
>> Brown: I THINK MANY AMERICANS
LOOKING AT WHAT HAPPENED IN THE
ELECTION AND SINCE WOULD SAY
DIVIDED GOVERNMENT -- THE
PRESIDENT WANTS TO DO THIS,
REPUBLICANS DON'T ALLOW THAT --
YOU HAVEN'T HAD TO DEAL WITH
DIVIDED GOVERNMENT IN WISCONSIN.
SO WHAT WOULD BE YOUR -- WHAT DO
YOU THINK COULD BE DONE TO GET
PAST IT?
>> MY ARGUMENT IS I DON'T THINK
THAT SPLIT GOVERNMENT DIVIDING
THINGS IS A GOOD IDEA.
CONVENTIONAL WISDOM IN
WASHINGTON FOR YEARS HAS BEEN
DIVIDED GOVERNMENT IS GOOD
BECAUSE OF THE CHECKS AND
BALANCES.
WHAT I BELIEVE HAPPENS ALL TOO
OFTEN-- REGARDLESS OF WHICH
PARTY BECAUSE THE SAME SORTS OF
THINGS HAPPENED WITH GEORGE BUSH
IN THE END OF HIS TERM WHEN
DEMOCRATS WERE IN CHARGE OF THE
HOUSE AND THE SENATE IS THERE'S
GRIDLOCK.
THE BETTER ARGUMENT IS GIVE ONE
PARTY A CHANCE, GIVE NAME CHANCE
WITH THE HOUSE AND SENATE AND
THE PRESIDENT, GIVE THEM A FEW
YEARS TO SEE WHAT THEY CAN DO
AND IF YOU DON'T LIKE IT PUT
ANOTHER PARTY IN.
>> Brown: YOU SAY THAT EVEN
THOUGH WE HAVE A VERY DIVIDED
COUNTRY, A VERY DIVIDED
ELECTORATE.
>> BUT LOOK AT WISCONSIN AND
BATTLEGROUND STATES ACROSS THE
UNITED STATES WHERE THEY ARE
EVENLY DIVIDED, THE REAL REFORMS
I THINK YOU'LL SEE HAPPENING
AREN'T HAPPENING IN THE DEEP RED
STATES.
THEY'RE HAPPENING IN THE PURPLE
STATES, THE MIDWESTERN STATES IN
PARTICULAR, WHERE WE'RE TACKLING
BIG, TOUGH ISSUES.
>> Brown: I HAVE TO ASK YOU.
SHOULD BOOK BE READ AS A FURTHER
MOVE TO A NATIONAL STAGE, IN
FACT TOWARDS A 2016 PRESIDENTIAL
RUN?
>> NO.
IN FACT, I THINK A LOT OF PEOPLE
WOULD BE SURPRISED.
THIS IS NOT A CAMPAIGN BOOK.
>> Brown: YOU HAVE SAID THE NEXT
NOMINEE SHOULD BE A GOVERNOR.
YOUR DESCRIPTION SOUNDS AN AWFUL
LOT LIKE SCOTT WALKER.
DO YOU HAVE ASPIRATIONS?
PRESIDENTIAL ASPIRATIONS TO BE
THE PARTY'S NOMINEE IS
>> I HAD TO WORK PRETTY HARD
ONCE OR TWICE TO BECOME
GOVERNOR.
I'LL HAVE TO WORK HARD A THIRD
TIME IN FOUR YEARS TO BECOME
GOVERNOR.
I'M REALLY FOCUSED ON BEING
BUT I DO BELIEVE THAT CHIEF
GOVERNOR.
EXECUTIVES THAT ARE SUCCESSFUL
BUT I DO BELIEVE THAT CHIEF
MAKE GOOD CHIEF EXECUTIVES.
EXECUTIVES THAT ARE SUCCESSFUL
WHETHER IT'S A CURRENT OR A
MAKE GOOD CHIEF EXECUTIVES.
FORMER GOVERNOR I THINK IN
WHETHER IT'S A CURRENT OR A
AMERICA TODAY THERE WOULD BE 30
FORMER GOVERNOR I THINK IN
GREAT CANDIDATES ALL ACROSS THIS
AMERICA TODAY THERE WOULD BE 30
COUNTRY AND A NUMBER OF FORMER
GREAT CANDIDATES ALL ACROSS THIS
GOVERNORS WHO WOULD BE
COUNTRY AND A NUMBER OF FORMER
OUTSTANDING PRESIDENTS SHOULD
GOVERNORS WHO WOULD BE
THAT OPPORTUNITY ARISE IN THE
OUTSTANDING PRESIDENTS SHOULD
FUTURE.
THAT OPPORTUNITY ARISE IN THE
>> Brown: GOVERNOR SCOTT WALKER,
FUTURE.
THANK YOU VERY MUCH.
>> Brown: GOVERNOR SCOTT WALKER,
>> GOOD TO BE WITH YOU.
>> Ifill: AFRICAN AMERICAN
STORIES HAVE BEEN TOLD IN FITS
AND STARTS OVER THE YEARS, BUT
SELDOM ALL IN ONE PLACE.
IN "THE AFRICAN AMERICANS: MANY
RIVERS TO CROSS," HARVARD
PROFESSOR HENRY LOUIS GATES, JR.
OFFERS AN EXHAUSTIVE BUT NOT
EXHAUSTING JOURNEY THROUGH FIVE
CENTURIES.
THE SIX-PART SERIES, WHICH
COVERS EVERYTHING FROM SLAVERY
TO "SOUL TRAIN," CONCLUDES ITS
RUN TONIGHT ON PBS.
PART OF THE FINALE DEALS WITH
THE STORY OF THE BLACK PANTHERS,
WHO TURNED TO VIOLENCE AFTER
MARTIN LUTHER KING, JR., WAS
ASSASSINATED IN 1968.
>> ACROSS THE COUNTRY, SOME
AFRICAN AMERICANS WHO PATIENTLY
WITHSTOOD INJUSTICE FOR DECADES
NOW SET THEIR CITIES ON FIRE IN
A SPONTANEOUS OUTPOURING OF
DESPAIR AND ANGER.
BUT IN OAKLAND, CALIFORNIA,
PEOPLE HAD SOMEWHERE ELSE TO
TURN.
THE BLACK PANTHER PARTY.
A MILITANT GROUP STARTED IN 1966
TO DEFEND THE CITY'S BLACK
COMMUNITY.
>> PEOPLE JAMMED THE BLACK
PANTHER OFFICES "WE WANT GUNS,
WE WANT GUN
SOMETHING ABOUT THIS."
>> BY APRIL, 1968, THE PANTHERS
HAD GONE FROM MOW MOATING
SELF-DEFENSE TO ADVOCATING
REVOLUTIONARY CHANGE.
>> Ifill: WELCOME PROFESSOR
GATES.
SO IT'S NOT BLACK HISTORY MONTH
AND NOT THE ANNIVERSARY OF THE
MARCH ON WASHINGTON.
WHY ARE WE TELLING THESE STORIES
AGAIN?
>> 500 YEARS OF THE
CONTRIBUTIONS, ACHIEVEMENTS AND
SACRIFICES OF 42 MILLION -- OF
THE ANCESTORS OF 42 MILLION
AMERICANS.
THAT'S NOT IMPORTANT?
DO YOU KNOW THAT THE FIRST
PERSON OF AFRICAN DESCENT LANDED
IN WHAT IS NOW NORTH AMERICA IN
1513?
AND WE EVEN KNOW HIS NAME.
HIS NAME WAS JUAN DORITO.
HE WASN'T A SLAVE, HE WAS FREE
AND HE CAME WITH PONCE DE LEONE,
HE WAS A BLACK CONQUISTADOR AND
HE WAS LOOKING FOR THE FOUNTAIN
OF YOUTH JUST LIKE THE WHITE
GUYS.
(LAUGHS)
AND HE'S BEEN LOST TO HISTORY
EXCEPT FOR A FEW SPECIALISTS SO
WE START WITH JUAN DORITO AND WE
GO 500 YEARS, HALF A MILLEN
DWROUPL THIS SECOND ELECTION AND
THE SECOND INAUGURATION OF THE
FIRST BLACK PRESIDENT, BARACK
OBAMA.
>> Ifill: WHICH IS THE STORY
YOU'LL TELL TUESDAY NIGHT.
BUT TELL ME, HOW DO YOU DECIDE
IN THOSE STORIES, HOW DO YOU
DECIDE WHICH ONE TO TELL?
>> WE CHOSE THINGS THAT WERE
EMBLEMATIC OF LARGER PHENOMENON.
YOU CANNOT TELL THE STORY OF
EVERY RUN AWAY SLAVE SO YOU PICK
HARRIET TUBMAN.
YOU CAN'T DO EVERY RIOT SO WE DO
THE L.A. RIOTS.
THIS STORY OF SOLOMON NORTHUP
WHICH HAS BEEN -- SO MANY
AMERICANS HAVE SEEN IN "12 YEARS
A SLAVE."
WE PICKED KAREN STEVENS, THE
BLACK MAN WHO WAS FRAMED FOR
DRUG POSSESSION ON A GREYHOUND
BUS, HAS M.S., IN A WHEELCHAIR
AND SERVED IN PRISON FOR 11
YEARS BEFORE HE WAS PARDONED.
>> Ifill: THERE'S A THEME THAT
RUNS THROUGHOUT ALL SIX PARTS OF
THIS THAT AFRICAN AMERICANS, NO
MATTER HOW THEY CAME TO THIS
COUNTRY, MANAGED TO CREATE
SOMETHING OUT OF NOTHING.
WHETHER IT WAS CULTURALLY,
HISTORICALLY, WHETHER IT WAS
FOOD, SOMEHOW CREATED SOMETHING
OUT OF NOTHING.
>> YEAH, I WANTED TO ACHIEVE TWO
EFFECTS.
ONE TO SHOW THE EFFECTS OF BLACK
AGENCY.
THE FACT THAT OUR PEOPLE HAD A
WILL TO SURVIVE.
WE CALL ONE EPISODE "MAKING WAY
OUT OF NO WAY."
WHICH YOU KNOW IS FUNDAMENTAL TO
THE BLACK TRADITION, THAT
EXPRESSION.
AND OUR ANCESTORS DEFERRED
GRATIFICATION.
THEY HAD NO IDEA THAT SLAVERY
WOULD ACTUALLY END.
BUT THEY FUNCTIONED AS IF IT
WOULD.
THE THEY COULD NOT IMAGINE THAT
YOU WOULD BE THE CO-HOST OF A
NATIONAL NEWS PROGRAM.
>> Ifill: I COULDN'T IMAGINE IT
EITHER, THAT'S OKAY.
>> INTERVIEWING ME, A PROFESSOR
AT HARVARD UNIVERSITY WHO'S
EXECUTIVE PRODUCER OF A SIX-HOUR
SERIES OF AFRICAN AMERICAN
HISTORY.
THAT OUR PEOPLE WOULD EVER GET
TO THAT POINT.
YET THEY FUNCTIONED IN SUCH A
WAY AS TO MAKE IT POSSIBLE.
I WANTED TO CREATE THE EFFECT OF
OVERHEARING A CONVERSATION ABOUT
THE BLACK EXPERIENCE.
AMONG BLACK PEOPLE.
IN THE SPECIAL WAY THAT WHEN YOU
GO TO GET YOUR HAIR DONE OR YOU
GO TO A BARBERSHOP OR YOU'RE IN
CHURCH PEOPLE AREN'T WORRIED
ABOUT PUBLIC PERCEPTIONS OF WHAT
THEY'LL -- THEY'RE JUST THEIR
CULTURAL "SELF"S, AS I THINK OF
IT.
AND WE CAME UP WITH SEVEN NEW OR
IN INDUSTRIES AND THEY TELL THE
TALE.
>> Ifill: HOW DO YOU FILL A GAP
THAT ISN'T BEING FILLED IN THE
SCHOOLS?
IS THAT WHAT THIS IS ABOUT AS
WELL?
>> OH, ABSOLUTELY.
THE -- I RECEIVED THOUSANDS OF
E-MAILS OVER THE LAST FIVE WEEKS
BUT THE ONES I TREASURE MOST ARE
FROM EITHER TEACHERS OR
STUDENTS.
AND TEACHERS SAYING "ALREADY I'M
USING IT TO TEACH SLAVERY OR
RECONSTRUCTION OR THE CREATION
OF JIM CROW OR THE HARLEM
RENAISSANCE OR THE GREAT
MIGRATION."
AND WHY IS IT IMPORTANT?
IT'S IMPORTANT BECAUSE OUR
SCHOOLS SHAPE WHO WE ARE AS
CITIZENS.
THINK ABOUT THE THINGS YOU LEARN
IN FIRST GRADE.
"MY COUNTRY 'TIS OF THEE" "I
PLEDGE ALLEGIANCE TO THE FLAG,"
"AMERICA THE BEAUTIFUL."
YOUR TEACHER DOESN'T SAY "TODAY
IS CITIZEN LESSON, I'M GOING TO
TEACH YOU HOW TO BE A CITIZEN."
THEY IMPLICITLY TEACH YOU HOW TO
BE A CITIZEN.
ANY TIME THERE'S A RACIAL
INCIDENT IN THIS COUNTRY OUR
LEADERS CALL FOR A TOWN HALL
MEETING, A CONVERSATION ABOUT
RACE.
NO ONE HAS A CONVERSATION ABOUT
CITIZENSHIP, IT HAPPENS
IMPLICITLY, INVISIBLY EVERYDAY.
THAT'S WHERE THE REAL
CONVERSATION ABOUT RACE HAS TO
HAPPEN.
KINDERGARTEN, FIRST GRADE,
EVERYDAY.
EVERYDAY HAS TO BE BLACK HISTORY
MONTH IN THE SENSE THAT OUR
STORY HAS TO BE INTEGRATED IN
EXTRICKBLY IN THE STORY OF
AMERICA AND THAT'S WHAT WE'VE
PROVIDED IN THE SERIES.
>> Ifill: IN THE YEAR THAT WE'VE
SEEN "THE BUTLER" AND "12 YEARS
A SLAVE" THERE ARE THOSE WHO
COULD SAY WE'RE IN THE MIDDLE OF
ANOTHER BIG BLACK CULTURAL
RENAISSANCE OF HISTORICAL STORY
TELLING.
>> I WAS AROUND WHEN "NEW JACK
CITY" AND "SHE'S GOTTA HAVE IT"
AND "DO THE RIGHT THING --".
>> SPIKE LEE'S BIG MOMENTS.
>> THEY ALL CAME OUT AT THE SAME
TIME AND EVERYBODY WAS TALKING
ABOUT RENAISSANCE IN BLACK
FILMS.
THAT WAS 1990 OR 1991.
I THINK IT'S THE SECOND
GENERATION EFFECT OF AFFIRMATIVE
ACTION.
ONE OF THE THEMES OF OUR FINAL
EPISODE THAT TO QUOTE DICKENS
IT'S THE BEST OF TIMES AND THE
WORST OF TIMES FOR OUR PEOPLE.
THE BLACK UPPER MIDDLE-CLASS HAS
QUADRUPLED SINCE 1968 WHEN
DR. KING WAS KILLED BECAUSE OF
AFFIRMATIVE ACTION.
AT THE SAME TIME, THE PERCENTAGE
OF BLACK CHILDREN LIVING AT OR
BENEATH THE POVERTY LINE IS
ALMOST IDENTICAL TO WHAT IT WAS
THE DAY DR. KING WAS KILLED.
>> Ifill: SO THERE'S THIS HUGE
WEALTH GAP EVEN THOUGH WE HAVE A
BLACK PRESIDENT AND WE'RE
SUPPOSED TO BE PAST ALL THIS.
>> AND FOR THOSE OF US ABLE TO
TAKE ADVANTAGEF AF OFIRMATIVE
ACTION AND THEN REPLICATE
OURSELVES OVER THE YEARS WE
BELIEVE ABLE TO TAKE ADVANTAGE
OF MORE ACCESS TO THE MEANS OF
PRODUCTION THAN ANY GENERATION
OF BLACK PEOPLE BEFORE US.
>> Ifill: INCLUDING TELLING OUR
OWN STORIES.
>> INCLUDING TELLING OUR OWN
STORIES.
ALSO WE HAVE A HUGE MARKET.
A HUGE GROUP OF BLACK PEOPLE WHO
CAN AFFORD TO GO TO MOVIE
THEATERS, BUY A TICKET, TIVO,
BUY D.V.D.s.
YOU SEE THESE FORCES COMING
TOGETHER.
SO I THINK THAT WE ARE IN A KIND
OF RENAISSANCE, BUT IT'S THE
RESULT, PARADOXICALLY, OR
CURIOUSLY ENOUGH, OF THE CIVIL
RIGHTS MOVEMENT AND AFFIRMATIVE
ACTION.
WE'RE JUST SEEING ITS EFFECT 40
YEARS LATER.
>> Brown: THE STORY IS "THE
AFRICAN AMERICANS: THE RIVERS TO
CROSS."
THE LAST EPISODE AIRS TONIGHT
BUT YOU CAN GET IT ON D.V.D. AND
ONLINE, OF COURSE.
AND THE SPIRITUAL LEADER BEHIND
IT ALL IS PROFESSOR HENRY LOUIS
GATES, JR. THANK YOU FOR JOINING
US.
>> THANK YOU.
>> Woodruff: NOW, FOR ANOTHER IN
OUR THANKSGIVING WEEK FOOD
SERIES: A PROFILE OF FOOD WRITER
AND COOKBOOK AUTHOR PAULA
WOLFERT AS SHE CALLS ON HER
CULINARY SKILLSO BA TTTLE BACK
AGAINST ALZHEIMER'S.
PAULA WOLFERT HAS THE HANDS OF
SOMEONE WHO'S BEEN COOKING A
LONG TIME.
>> WHAT I'M GOING DO IS I'M JUST
GOING TO FRY THIS FOR FLAVOR.
ROUGH FLUFF THE KITCHEN OF HER
SONOMA, CALIFORNIA HOME, WOLFERT
IS PREPARING A CAULIFLOWER
RECIPE SHE LOVES.
>> THIS IS AN ARMENIAN DISH
TAUGHT TO ME BY A VERY FAMOUS
ARMENIAN COOK.
I LIKE THE DISH BECAUSE IT'S SO
SIMPLE TO MAKE.
>> Woodruff: THE 75-YEAR-OLD
WOLFERT HAS BEEN WRITING ABOUT
MEDITERRANEAN FOOD FOR FOUR
DECADES.
SHE AUTHORED NINE COOKING BOOKS
AND HAS WON NUMEROUS AWARDS,
INCLUDING FIVE JAMES BEARD.
WOLFERT MADE HER MARK LONG
BEFORE THE RISE OF THE
MODERN-DAY CELEBRITY CHEFS, BUT
HER COMMITMENT TO AUTHENTIC
RECIPES AND INGREDIENTS STILL
INFLUENCE MISS IN THE CULINARY
WORLD TODAY.
>> I LIKE REAL FOOD.
I'M NOT A CHEF WHO MAKES UP
DISHES.
THAT'S TODAY'S WORLD.
I WAS INTERESTED IN REAL FOOD OF
THE COUNTRIES THAT I HAD
VISITED.
AND I HAD VISITED ALL THE
COUNTRIES OF THE MEDITERRANEAN
BY THE TIME I GOT AROUND THE
WRITING ABOUT THE FOOD.
AND IN WRITING ABOUT THE FOOD,
YOU HAVE TO EXPLAIN THE PEOPLE.
AT THAT TIME PEOPLE DIDN'T DO
THAT VERY MUCH IN COOK BOOKS,
THEY JUST TRIED TO MAKE IT LOOK
FAST AND EASY AND JUST GET IN
THERE AND MAKE IT BUT I WAS
INTERESTED IN HOW THEY REALLY
MAE TDHE FOOD.
THIS IS THE VERY FIRST  POT
I EVER BOUGHT.
AND I SAW THIS AND I SAID WHAT
IS THIS?
AND SHE SAID IT'S THE COOK'S
RIPTE.
I SAID WHAT'S TRIPE?
I THINK I WAS 19.
18.
I DIDN'T KNOW WHAT TRIPE WAS.
YOU PUT ALL THE FOOD IN HERE.
FIRM TUNISIA IT WAS ABOUT 12
WOMEN IN THE ROOM AND I SAID?
FRENCH "WHO MAKES THE BEST --" I
CAN'T REMEMBER THE DISH.
AND I COULDEE  SALL THE HEADS
TURN.
THE SAME THING IN GREECE.
THE SAME THING EVERYWHERE.
IN SICILY.
I ALWAYS GOT A BUNCH OF WOMEN
TOGETHER AND THEN I WOULD ASK
ABOUT RARE DISHES AND THAT'S
WHAT I WANT TO LEARN.
WHAT SHOULD I HAVE FOR NO GLUTEN
>> Woodruff: MOST FRIDAY
MORNINGS SHE CAN BE FOUND
BROWSING THE SONOMA FARMER'S
MARKET.
>> IT'S THE BEST FOOD IN THE
COUNTRY.
THE GROWING SEASON IS LONGER,
THE QUALITY IS HERE.
THE FARMERS CARE.
FOR A COOK, THIS IS HEAVEN.
>> Woodruff: WOLFERT LIVES WITH
HER HUSBAND BILL BYER, A BEST
SELLING CRIME FICTION WRITER.
SEVERAL YEARS AGO AS SHE WAS
TOURING THE COUNTRY TO PROMOTE
HER MOST RECENT BOOK WOLFERT
SAYS SHE STARTED TO SUSPECT SHE
WAS HAVING NEUROLOGICAL
PROBLEMS.
>> I KNEW THERE WAS SOMETHING
WRONG.
I JUST WASN'T SURE WHAT IT WAS.
I ADH MEMORY PROBLEMS.
YINZ SOMETIMES WHEN PEOPLE
QUESTIONED ME WITH COMPLICATED
QUESTIONS.
EVEN ABOUT THINGS THAT I WROTE
ABOUT MYSELF!
IN IN A BOOK I JUST FINISHED.
THE FIRST THING NEUROLOGISTS
SAID IS IT'S MILD COGNITIVE
IMPAIRMENT.
BUT SHE DID SEND KNOW THIS BIG
SCIENTIST BECAUSE HE DOES BIG
TESTS, YOU KNOW, THESE TRIALS.
AND HE READ IT AND HE SAID NO,
NO, NO, THAT'S ALZHEIMER'S.
>> WHEN PAULA FIRST STARTED
TELLING ME SHE SAYS "I'M WORRY,
I THINK I'M LOSING MY MIND, I
CAN'T REMEMBER ANYTHING.
I WAS IN DENIAL AND I THINK MOST
OF THE PEOPLE WHO KNEW HER.
THERE WAS ONE TIME SHE CAME UP
AND SHE SAID "YOU KNOW, I FORGOT
HOW TO MAKE AN OMELET."
SHE WAS STANDING IN FRONT OF THE
STOVE.
IT WAS VERY POIGNANT.
>> Woodruff: WOLFERT BEGAN
READING EVERYTHING SHE COULD
ABOUT TRYING TO SLOW THE
PROGRESSION OF ALZHEIMER'S AND
SHE TURNED TO THE THING SHE
KNOWS BEST TO WAGE HER BATTLE--
FOOD.
>> THE KALE, THE AVOCADO, THE
BLUEBERRIES, THE COCONUTS.
THESE ARE THE MAIN INGREDIENTS.
>> Woodruff: EVERY MORNING
WOLFERT ASEMI-ABLES A SHAKE
CHALK FULL OF SUPERFOODS AND
SUPPLEMENTS SHE BELIEVES ARE
HELPING STAVE OFF FURTHER
COGNITIVE DECLINE.
SOME INGREDIENTS HAVE WELL-KNOWN
HEALTH BENEFITS, LIKE LEAFY
GREENS AND NUTS.
SOME HAVE NOT BEEN PROVEN
SCIENTIFICALLY TO BOOST BRAIN
FUNCTION-- LIKE COCONUT OIL.
BUT WOLFERT SAYS SHE'S NEVER
FELT BETTER.
>> IT IS TOUGH GOING BECAUSE
IT'S NOT DELICIOUS.
I DIDN'T MAKE THIS TO BE
DELICIOUS.
I MAKE THIS TO BE NUTRITIOUS.
MY GRANDMOTHER TOLD ME DURING
THE SECOND WORLD WAR, WE WERE
SITTING IN THE VEGETABLE GARDEN.
SHE SAID "IF YOU WANT TO WIN A
WAR, YOU HAVE TO BE WILLING TO
FIGHT."
THIS IS HOW I FIGHT.
>> ALZHEIMER'S IS JUST A
CRUSHING WORD.
YOU DON'T WANT TO HEAR THAT
WORD.
I HAVE BEEN INCREDIBLY IMPRESSED
BY THE WAY SHE'S HANDLED THIS
BECAUSE I THINK ABOUT HOW I
MIGHT HAVE HANDLED IT AND I
DON'T THINK WITH ANYWHERE NEAR
THE KIND OF COURAGE SHE'S SHOWN.
>> I HAVE TO LOOK AT MY OWN
RECIPE BECAUSE I CAN NEVER
REMEMBER ANYTHING.
THROW IN THE TOMATOES, CRUSHED
RED PEPPER, OKAY.
>> Woodruff: WOLFERT
OCCASIONALLY COOKS THESE DAYS
BUT SHE NOW RELIES ON HER OWN
COOK BOOK.
>> I CAN'T REMEMBER WHAT I READ
TWO MINUTES AFTER I READ IT.
THAT'S THE REAL PROBLEM.
I KNOW WHAT THE DISH IS SUPPOSED
TO TASTE LIKE, I JUST DON'T
REMEMBER THE AMOUNT.
I HAVE TO CHECK THE PROPORTIONS
AND I CAN'T -- I CAN'T REMEMBER.
I CAN'T REMEMBER FROM GOING
THERE TO HERE AND BACK AGAIN.
I JUST -- IT'S JUST -- IT'S NOT
FAIR THAT THESE THINGS HAPPEN
BUT THEY DO SO I JUST TO WHAT I
CAN.
IF THIS WORKS AND MAKING ME NICE
AND HEALTHY I'LL BE BUYING IT
ALL THE TIME.
>> WHO KNOWS WHAT THE FUTURE
HOLDS AND HOW THIS WILL PLAY
OUT.
I TRY NOT TO THINK TOO MUCH
ABOUT IT BUT, SURE, WE DISCUSS
IT, TOO.
WHAT WILL THE FUTURE BE?
THAT'S WHAT'S SO SCARY ABOUT
THIS AND THAT'S WHAT EVERYONE IS
VERY CONSCIOUS OF.
BECAUSE YOUR MEMORY IS YOUR SELF
AND YOUR ABILITY TOLL RECOGNIZE.
I MISS THE TESTING YEARS WHEN
YOU WOULD BE DEVELOPING A --
>> THEY'RE OVER.
>> I UNDERSTAND WHY THEY'RE
OVER.
>> MY HUSBAND SAYS "I COULDN'T
EAT LIKE YOU, I'D RATHER DIE."
I SAID "NO YOU WOULDN'T!
NO YOU WOULDN'T!
I WANT TO BE HERE AS BEST I CAN
AND I CAN'T DO WITHOUT FOOD.
I DID THAT FOR 50 YEARS.
THAT'S FINE, I LOVED EVERY
MOMENT OF IT.
I LOVED MY FRIENDS, I LOVE ALICE
WATERS BUT THAT ISN'T WHERE MY
SHED RIGHT NOW.
MY HEAD IS WITH MY CHILDREN, MY
HUSBAND, MY FRIENDS AND SHARING
WITH THE ALZHEIMER'S ASSOCIATION
WHATVER EI CAN SHARE BECAUSE
THIS IS THE MOST IMPORTANT THING
I WANT TO SAY.
THE SHAME THAT PEOPLE HAVE ABOUT
THEIR MEMORY LOSS AND THE DENIAL
THAT EXISTS AND THEIR FRIENDS
SAYING OH, EVERYBODY HAS -- YOU
KNOW, IT'S SENIOR MOMENTS,
FORGET IT.
BY THE TIME THEY FINALLY BECOME
LIKE THE OLD LADIES OR OLD MEN
BECOME IT'S TOO FAR -- YOU CAN'T
HELP -- THOSE PEOPLE CAN'T BE
HELPED!
IT'S TOO LATE!
IT'S TOOTO COME OUT THE WAY
PEOPLE WITH H.I.V. CAME OUT, THE
WAY PEOPLE WITH CANCER CAME OUT.
WE'RE NOT GOING TO GET ENOUGH
MONEY FROM THE GOVERNMENT OR
ANYBODY ELSE UNLESS WE STAND
THERE AND SAY, HEY, I'M NOT A
ZOMBIE, I'M ME AND I NEED HELP
AND ALL THE PEOPLE AROUND ME WHO
ARE SUFFERING THE WAY I AM, WE
NEED HELP.
BUT WE HAVE TO COME OUT AND SAY
IT, WE'RE WORRIED.
WE NEED TO DO SOMETHING.
>> Woodruff: WE'RE CHEERING YOU
ON, PAULA.
>> Woodruff: WOLFERT SAYS SHE
PLANS TO "DO SOMETHING" BY
BECOMING A VOLUNTEER ADVOCATE
FOR THE ALZHEIMER'S ASSOCIATION.
HER DOCTORS SAY THEY HAVEN'T
SE SIGENNS OF ANY FURTHER
COGNITIVE DECLINE IN THE PAST
SIX MONTHS.
ON OUR HOMEPAGE, YOU WILL FIND
WOLFERT'S RECIPES FOR BUTTERNUT
SQUASH SOUP AND PAN-ROASTED
CAULIFLOWER.
>> Ifill: AGAIN, THE MAJOR
DEVELOPMENTS OF THE DAY.
A WINTER STORM ROLLED ACROSS THE
EASTERN U.S., THREATENING TO
SNARL THANKSGIVING TRAVEL PLANS
FOR THOUSANDS.
AND A PAIR OF U.S. BOMBERS FLEW
OVER DISPUTED ISLANDS IN THE
EAST CHINA SEA, DEFYING CHINESE
DEMANDS THAT SUCH FLIGHTS GET
CLEARANCE FIRST.
>> Woodruff: ON THE NEWSHOUR
ONLI RIGNEHT NOW, WHY WILL MORE
AMERICANS TURN TO EMERGENCY FOOD
AID THIS HOLIDAY SEASON?
WE EXAMINE HOW THE REDUCTION IN
THE FEDERAL SUPPLEMENTAL
NUTRITION ASSISTANCE PROGRAM
WILL AFFECT FAMILIES AND FOOD
BANKS.
ALL THAT AND MORE IS ON OUR WEB
SITE, newshour.pbs.org.
>> Ifill: THIS EVENING'S
FRONTLINE TEAMS UP WITH THE "NEW
YORK TIMES" TO EXAMINE WHAT
HAPPENS WHEN POLICE INVESTIGATE
DOMESTIC VIOLENCE ALLEGATIONS
WITHIN THEIR OWN RANKS.
CHECK YOU LOCAL LISTINGS FOR THE
TIME.
ON WEDNESDAY, TURNING CANNED
GOODS INTO MASSIVE ART PROJECTS
TO PROMOTE FOOD DRIVES.
I'M GWEN IFILL.
>> Woodruff: AND I'M JUDY
WOODRUFF.
WE'LL SEE YOU ONLINE AND AGAIN
HERE TOMORROW EVENING.
FOR ALL OF US HERE AT THE PBS
NEWSHOUR, THANK YOU AND GOOD
NIGHT.